Let's have a look at the
Classroom Lab environment first.
So the only system actually
that we are going to use for our
work is the workstation system.
It is a Linux desktop,
providing you all the tools that
we need to complete this course,
along with all the exercises.
It is connected to the student network,
which has an outgoing
router called bastion,
which in turn is connected to the
classroom infrastructure network,
giving it access to the
classroom virtual machine.
So you see all 3 of those
in your virtual machine list.
The function of the
bastion VM is just that
of connecting the workstation
to the external internet.
However, the classroom
virtual machine does
have 2 virtual hosts
configured on it.
The content and the
materials.example.com,
which are used to serve various materials
to the workstation as
needed by the exercises.
You can consult the classroom
machine table if you want to
get more details on the actual IPs,
on each of those, although
shouldn't be needed because
every single virtual machine is
reachable by its DNS hostname.
When you log in and enter the course,
you will be able to see a tab
called a Lab Environment.
Initially, this lab is
going to be in deleted state.
So you will be able to create it first,
create the virtual machines for your work
and they are going to progress
through a couple of states,
from being non-existent
to being in a waiting to
start and PUBLISHING state,
which are the first 2 stages.
They don't really take long,
then they are going to be in
the STARTING state for awhile.
And ultimately they end
up in a STARTED state.
You can see them in the
list of virtual machines
towards the bottom of the
lab environment, overview.
The automatic shutdown timer
counts initially from 1 hour.
So make sure that if you intend to
work for a longer amount of time,
you click the plus button next to it.
As you can see, the
maximum amount that you
can schedule your class
to be up for, is 12 hours.
After that, the plus button disappears.
And this is to help you preserve your
learning subscription lab hours.
Now, if you want to stop it immediately
because you have finished your work,
you can simply go on and
click the STOP button
And in that case,
the virtual machines are
going to go through first
the STOPPING state and then
eventually into the STOPPED state.
So this is non-destructive operation,
the state of your virtual machine
is preserved across restarts.
Of course, initially, you can
create the lab and that creates the
virtual machine in the initial state.
And if at some point
you want to completely
wipe out and restart
your work from scratch,
you can also DELETE the lab,
wait for it to disappear,
and then create it all over again.
Individual virtual machines may
have several actions
associated with them. Generally
we don't use these individual
virtual machine actions unless
explicitly told by the course book to,
for example, reset a particular system.
But since in this course
the workstation is
the only system that we are
actively working with,
there is no need to use these
except for the OPEN CONSOLE button,
which will open the virtual
machine in a new tab.
So you might have to allow pop-ups
from rol.redhat.com.
And if you see a blank screen like this,
just wiggle the mouse a little bit.
It's the screensaver that
is on or press any key
and you will be able to login
as the student user with
the password of student,
all small letters.
Couple of tricks in the
virtual machine viewer.
The screen is size down to
the size of your browser,
so if you need or want a high resolution,
make sure that your browser
window is large enough first
and then you can use the Activities
button in the top left corner
of the screen and simply
start typing displays
and you will be able to
see that displays icon,
which will allow you to
change the resolution of
the screen to something that
is more comfortable for you.
Of course, as I said, if you
choose too large a resolution,
it will be scaled down to
the browser window size.
So it might end up actually
having worse picture quality than
what you had wanted.
When it comes to
typing and working with
the virtual machine,
you will probably want to
paste some text at some point in time.
What you need to make sure is that the
window we want to paste into, is active
and then click the T button
here in the top right corner,
where you can type or copy
the text that you want to
send to the virtual machine.
And click Send, which will
simulate the keystrokes and make
the text appear in your active window.
If at some point in time you
either lose the connection to
the VM console or you accidentally close
it pressing Control W, for example,
it might happen that one or
more of your modifier keys,
that is Control, Alt,
Shift, and so on, get stuck.
So when trying to type,
you may see weird things
happen in the terminal.
And if you want to remediate that
there is a button next
to the right most
one in the top-right corner
called release modifier keys.
If you click that one, it should fix
your keyboard and allow you
to type on and start working,
where you left off. If at
some point you want to enter
a key combination that is not supported
by the virtual machine viewer,
you can always pop up
the virtual keyboard by
clicking on the middle button
in the top right corner,
which will bring up the virtual
keyboard and allow you to simulate
key clicks as if they were pressed
on your actual physical keyboard.
Inside the class, you have several
developer tools such as VSCodium,
which we are going to explore in
one of the upcoming exercises.
Apache Maven is already pre-installed
and ready for you to use.
And everything is set for you to
start working on your
first Quarkus applications.
Join us in the next video, where we're going
to discuss microservice architectures.